I'm Eric Novak Adan the latest test
drive we're taking a look at the 2014
Toyota Highlander Hybrid
in my role as an eco automotive
specialist I get plenty of opportunities
to drive hybrids in my other role as a
family focused auto reviewer I get
plenty of opportunities to drive seven
Cedars what I don't get a lot of
opportunity to drive though are seven
seed hybrids
well that's largely because there are
very few of them out there but whatever
that's been around and been very popular
they tell you what a Highlander Hybrid
so on this review we're gonna take a
look at it to have a good feel for what
it's like and put it through its paces
outside the highlander hybrid offers a
more progressive silhouette with better
aerodynamics and sculpted door frames
I'm not fond of the protruding
taillights that jut outward from the
rear but otherwise the new-look
highlander is an improvement from the
previous generation under the hood the
Highlander Hybrid pairs a 3.5 liter v6
engine with a high-torque electric drive
motor generator and a powerful traction
battery combined this offers 280 net
horsepower which is actually rated at 10
more horsepower than the gas model yet
offers 30% better fuel efficiency
seven-passenger crossover is really
aren't about performance they're about
comfort there but family needs and so
far as I've seen so far this is a very
comfortable ride I think I can go for
easily for long drives in the Highlander
Hybrid and I'm actually with the extra
length in the back a storage doesn't
seem to be much of a problem either I'm
surprised at how much storage room there
is even though this is a hybrid now it's
not to say that crossovers have a ton of
storage to begin with many events
they'll beat you there but overall I
from a family suitability perspective
this is quite a nice ride
fuel ratings for the Highlander Hybrid
Limited which is what I tested according
to Toyota are 6.8 liters per hundred
kilometers or 42 miles per gallon in the
city 7.2 liters per hundred kilometers
or 39 miles per gallon highway and 7
liters per hundred kilometers or 40
miles per gallon combined now my own
personal observations had me at around
8.5 liters per hundred kilometers or 28
miles per gallon combined which is above
their ratings but nonetheless pretty
impressive for a vehicle of its size and
weight according to Natural Resources
Canada the 2014 Highlander Hybrid is the
most fuel-efficient standard SUV sold in
Canada oh never fails to detect me going
for good rides someone wants to pulley
up or something
hang on a sec better check up this is
hey sorry for stopping in but that's for
construction coming up but by the way
this is new 2014 Toyota Highlander
Hybrid yeah it's all new for 2014 that
second-generation Wow
must feel like you're in your own little
eco friendly world in there oh yeah
stylish attractive good design yeah I
guess so does this world have a name the
Toyota Highlander Hybrid you just said
that you know I almost didn't hear you
driving up on me sneaking up on me like
that
well I was probably driving in electric
mode because they can do that or in a
hybrid mode or just on the engine alone
you like sneaking up on people no I
don't sneak up on people no a panoramic
sunroof and backup camera you could
probably do a real good job sneaking up
on people like yaar well families do one
eco friendly as well so yeah I guess so
I'm looking at you driving a vehicle
it's quiet eco friendly stylish you must
think you're pretty powerful no I
wouldn't say powerful just smart again
do you think I'm powerful I was thinking
more along the lines of weird and creepy
actually but
Yeah right tools inside the Highlander -
are some significant improvements from
the previous generation thanks to its
unibody design passenger comfort for up
to eight passengers it's better than
what it used to be the 2014 Highlander
Hybrid offers many of the typical
convenience amenities that one would
expect plus some innovative features
that are new I was particularly
impressed with their new driver easy
speak feature which utilizes the
vehicle's built-in microphone to amplify
the drivers voice through the rear
speakers and is controlled via the
touchscreen audio system I can't tell
you how many times I've had to raise my
voice over the year so that my kids in
the third row could hear what I'm saying
this takes care of that another
family-friendly enhancement to the 2014
edition comes from the fact that the
cargo room has been increased by 34
percent compared to the previous
generation the Highlander Hybrid now
offers thirteen point six cubic feet
behind the third row and while that is
still well below what you might find in
other categories of family vehicles it's
still better than what one would expect
to find in a vehicle of this type
pricing and canadian dollars for the
highlander hybrid starts at forty three
thousand seven hundred and twenty-four
an le trim right up to fifty two
thousand six ninety five or the limited
you know i really do wish there were
more seven seat hybrids on the market or
for that matter of vehicles of
alternative propulsion system or other
green technology that meet the needs of
large families such as mine that being
said if you are in that category and
you're looking for a highly
fuel-efficient large vehicle I think the
Highlander Hybrid for 2014 certainly
might meet your your needs it's a
stylish new design and it's great on gas
look in the time that I've been driving
and I've basically been getting the
equivalent of about a compact and
mid-sized four-cylinder sedan which is
really pretty good
considering what this offers in terms of
size and capability
I certainly hope to see more competition
for this vehicle as the years go by and
I think as technology evolves we will
but in the meantime if you are in that
market where you're looking for a family
vehicle for a large family and you want
a really great on gas I think this
Highlander Hybrid for 2014
certainly meets your bill with another
test drive I'm Eric Novak and I'll see
you again next time